---
title: Hello, World! I Started My Blog In Plain HTML
description: >-
  I finally started my blog, in plain HTML, no CSS, JS, inline style,
  whatsoever.
published time: 2020-12-17
---

Today is a special day for me: I finally created my blog, what I has been
thinking of for years ðŸŽ‰. If you are reading this on another platform, it is an
automatic crosspost, feel free to [check out my website].

## Plain HTML is fun ðŸ¤“

Because I didn't want to give myself another reason to keep procrastinating, I
decided to start this blog dead simple: plain HTML, no inline style, no CSS, no
JS, whatsoever.

Surprisingly, after making the decision, I realized that HTML and the web were
originally created for people to write, share, and communicate information. That
why we have HTML tags `title`, `article`, `header`, headings ( `h1` `h2` `h3`
`h4` `h5` `h6`), paragraph (`p`), etc, they're all for writing articles and
sharing stories. Over time, thanks to more and more powerful computers and
browsers, HTML/CSS/JS became more and more like a framework to create
interactive applications on the web.

This is such an interesting _Aha!_ movement for me because I started with game
and desktop programming, which are all about visualization and interactivity.
All of my previous experience with web development were also about creating
beautiful and interactive web applications. I've never happened to think of HTML
as a means for writing and sharing stories.

This also answered one of my biggest unsolved questions in programming - why on
earth there're many different HTML tags that have the same visualization and all
the weird workaround-like positioning techniques ( `float`, `clear: fix`, etc).
Coming from game and desktop development, absolute position, flex, and grid were
always obvious options when it comes to layout and positioning for me. Now, it
all makes sense ðŸ¤¯ and it's very interesting to see how HTML - the core of The
Internet has evolved over time.

Alright, that is it. I thought that I were gonna write more about why I started
this blog and what value you can get from it, but I ran out of time, gotta write
it tomorrow then.

<!-- Links -->

[check out my website]: https://phuctm97.com
